Submission one: Vinyl sitting on a table
Week 4
p5js
I noticed that using the for() function on ellipses to make a series of them that get increasingly bigger, it created quite a cool effect where they would kind of blend together to create a cool semi-organic pattern. To really enhance this effect I used a bunch of ellipses that differed slightly from each other in stroke weight, original starting size, and colour. This ended up creating something that looked to me kind of like a vinyl record so I decided to refine this idea and use it to create one of my favourite albums ever, Grace, by Jeff Buckley. For the details in the center I just layered some rectangles and ellipses and did the same to create some texture on the table. I chose this output because I think I did quite a good job translating an Idea that I had into an artwork as well as using a function in an interesting way that it wouldn’t usually be used for. To develop this idea further I would love to be able to figure out some kind of way to make it spin on a record player.

Submission two: Overlapping Perlin Noise graphs
Week 5
p5js
Using noise to dictate a point’s position on the y axis, I made these two graphs that each travel slowly across the x axis, leaving colourful trails as they go. To get them to have some cool texture to them I created multiple points for each graph, each starting from the same point on the x axis, but slightly different points on the y axis, so that they would just barely overlap. I decreased the alpha values for each of the graphs so that when they crossed over each other, you would be able to see one through the other. Another thing I did to add more life to the code was make the colour of each graph at any given point on the axis, be dependent on its position on the y axis. To do this, I created variables for the green and blue values and made the change depending on the x offset values. I also used map to make sure that the graphs would span the whole way across the page and be easy to see. Something I think I accomplished with this output was taking something that would usually be a pretty boring, simple idea of drawing a graph representing noise values over time, and turning it into a cool piece of art. To develop this learning further I would like to experiment with noise more, maybe even in three dimensions to create new, more interesting effects than just flat images.

Submission three: Buzzy Bee
Week 4
p5js
I noticed that using noise to control a shape's position on both the x and y axis made it move around kind of like how an insect would fly in its smooth but a little jittery randomness. This gave me the Idea of of actually making a bee that flies around the page controlled by perlin noise. I first created a base yellow ellipse for the body and then built the rest of the bee around that. To do this took a little bit of math in my head as I had to make each different part move in sync with each other while still being displaced from each other. I made variables for x and y that would control the general shapes movement and then mapped these each to different starting points along a perlin noise graph. I then used these to control each part of the bee and either added or subtracted from them depending on where they needed to be in relation to the bee’s body. I drew the background in the draw function so that the bee’s previous location would be drawn over with each frame and used a lot of different sized ellipses to draw the tree’s leaves and rectangles to draw the grass and tree trunk. Something I feel like I accomplished with this output and why I chose it was that I figured out a way to have multiple shapes moving together while being in different positions and was able to bring the idea that I had to reality. To extend this learning further I think I would like to find out some way to use the ideas that I used here in a more artistic way and maybe bring more life to the image.

Submission four: Digital Bacteria
Week 9
TouchDesigner
This output is essentially just a more complex feedback loop that uses a few different, interesting TOPs to create quite a cool effect. It starts with a noise node which I made move by using absTime.seconds to control its y and z values. This is then sent into both a feedback node and the bottom input of a lumablur. The feedback then goes back into the lumablur's top output and into a separate level node to bring its opacity down just slightly to 0.99. The lumablur goes into a subtract node’s bottom and top outputs which kind of does a weird thing subtracting most of it from itself. This then goes into a math node to accentuate this effect and multiply the alpha values of the pixels. This and the level node form before are both then sent into a composite top set to negate. To get rid of some of the useless part of the image it is then sent through a crop node and then to bring the contrast up and the whites out more it is finally sent through a level node. It looks in my opinion like something Radiohead would have used in the early 2010s for a piece of cover art or a visualizer for a song. It just gives off that kind of eerie vibe which is why I picked it for this assessment. I feel like it actually looks like somewhat of a piece of art rather than just something I coded. To develop it further I would really like to see how I could incorporate colour into it somehow. Perhaps this could be done by using noise in three dimensions or something along those lines. I would also like to find some way of making it audio reactive without taking away from the constant growth that it has now.

Submission five: Electronic Parasite
Week 11
TouchDesigner
This was originally something that we made in class as an example of how to use the copy SOP to merge the lines of two shapes together into one cool looking network of lines. The network starts with these two shapes which are each sent through transform nodes to change their rotation and scale before going into the copy node. After this I used two noise SOPs to make the point normals and point position change over time to give it this kind of uneasy movement that makes it looks like it's trying to escape from a cage or something. It then goes into a geo comp and here it is textured by using a line mat with point vectors turned on as well as lines. Having the point vectors turned on gives it the spikes that stick out of the sides. After sending it through a render node to convert it to a TOP, I used a bunch of processing things like level and bloom to make it look how I wanted. One of the main contributors to how it looks is that it gets sent through an edge TOP before being mixed with itself again going into a composite set to divide if that makes sense. After I had all this and looked pretty sick, I decided to make it audio reactive by creating an audio processing part and mapping this to the noise that controls the point normals’ amplitude parameter. I chose to include this output because I feel like I took quite a plain idea and turned it into something pretty cool by using lots of the other things I have learned in TouchDesigner throughout this course. I would really love to develop this learning further in using similar ideas to create more complex visualizers for songs and stuff or even for background visuals for dj sets and whatnot by making them live-reactive. Making it change in mood more depending on the energy of the song at the time would be something I would love to figure out.

Submission six: Alien Eye
Week 11
TouchDesigner
I had experimented with using the twist node in one of my previous outputs and I loved how they looked so I decided to use that Idea again in a different way to create something else that I had come up with in my head. By creating 6 spirals and using a translate node to rotate them each in different directions I had a portal-like thing going on which I was really liking. To give it more life, I used noise to displace the spirals slightly and make them pulse a little bit. I also made them spin at slightly different speeds by using abs.Time within a translate node to rotate them on one of their axes and multiplied it by different amounts.  To make the center part I created a couple of spheres which I then changed in size and stretched to where I wanted them to be. I then distorted these spheres by using noise in three dimensions to control their point positions. Once I had the general moving shape that I was happy with I textured it by mapped one of my previous outputs into a phong.which was then mapped to the shape’s colour values in a geo node. Once I had rendered It I wanted to figure out some way to make the light move around it somehow. I tried doing this within the shape’s light node but couldn’t make it work so instead rotated the whole shape itself by placing a translate before the Geo node and using absTime.seconds to rotate it. To create the illusion of the light moving, once I had rendered it I rotated It back the other way using a translate TOP and absTime once again. I chose this output because I think I had somewhat of a set idea of what I wanted to make beforehand and managed to bring that idea to life in a really cool way. I think just while making it I learned quite a lot about the code and some cool tricks that I could use again in the future. To bring this learning further in the future, I think I would love to maybe find new ways to use 3d objects in Touchdesigner and animate them differently.
